### Self Discussed the issue of ending the Ph.D. program early (with just a Masters)
 - decided to wait until research exam is done and see again.

### Read papers for DELPHI

#### Model Based Sensor Data Management
 - A model M describes the dependency between two sets of variables X and Y.

#### Querying continuous functions in Database Systems
 - For applications requiring continuous data, it is not sufficient to query the raw data obtained from sensors/financial/scientific applications.
 - Interpolation between points is not enough, it is just one of the possible models used to query data.
 - We come up with FunctionDB, a database with a query processor which treats mathematical functions as relations. Query processing is done on the algebraic representation of the function directly, without materialization, even when closed form solutions are intractable.
   - An algebraic expression is closed form if it can be expressed as a finite number of well-known functions.
   - A problem (or function) is intractable if it can be evaluated as a closed form expression.

## Finish Survey
 - All papers have been inspected once. Going through papers again.
 - How Achaeans would construct columns in Troy
 - Materializing SQL Queries in Key-Value Stores
 - Scalable Transactions across Heterogeneous NoSQL Key-Value Data Stores
 
- How do the discoveries of the papers help us conceive the forward query processor. 
- What do we have and what could we gain from the papers.

### What do we have in Forward
 - Distributed Database System for multiple heterogeneous sources.
 - Class of user-specified queries supported : SQL++
   - Standard Relational SQL
   - JSON
   - more
 - Types of data sources supported
 - Features of Our System (consistency/ACID...)
 - Performance Metrics
 - Architecture of our system
   - Cassandra Type (clustered)
   - Sharded (MongoDB)

### How can our system benefit from previous work?

#### Transaction Protocol for Distributed NoSQL datasources

#### SQL View Materialization in NoSQL Datasources