### Finished assignment 3 cse 202

### Reading Forward Query Processor
Understand the query processor as it is today and how it relates to the abstract query optimization we have been doing up to now. We cover chapters
8 to 13 quickly. Next we go over the normal forms and what romain has been working on.

####Plan Execution
  - We use a mediator architecture. There are two mediators, on the client and and server respectively.
  	- Server Mediator : contains schema for server-side sources (memory and relational data).
    - Client Mediator : contains universal mediator schema that cover all sources (a server is a source) from the client. It translate input queries into data access calls to the service and/or web services.
  - The wrapper model :
    - physical interface
    - plan execution algorithm
    - data model mapping 

####Action Language
 - inspired from PL/SQL
 - used to show that Forward is like extending SQL and stored procedures to websites.
 
####Querying Schemaless sources
 - We offer a unified query access of all sources (including schemaless and non-relational data sources).
 - The query processor can compile and generate physical plans when the data is schemaless or absent.
   - Part of semantic checking is deferred at compilation.
   - The rest is done dynamically, when data at execution is present.

### Review of Data Access Paper

#### SQL++ Data Model
 - SQL++ object is composed of an id and a value.
   - The id can be named (written explicitely in queries) or unnamed.
   - The object can be :
     - *typed atomic value*, e.g. 'abc', 1, 12:00:01GMT...
     - *object reference*, which is the id to some other object or null.
     - *tuple* [a1 : v1, ..., an : vn] where attribute names a1,...,an are strings and attribute values v1,...,vn are SQL++ values.
     - *expression* {e1...en}, where each ei is an SQL++ value.
 - A relation R in SQL will be an SQL++ object with :
   - as name, a named id R.
   - as value, a collection C of tuple values, such that each tuple attribute name is a column name of the original relation, and each attribute value is an atomic value corresponding to the original record cell in R.
 - Java Objects can be wrapped easily :
   - as name, the name of the java variable representing the object (or some randomly generated id for implicitely defined variables in Java).
   - as value, a collection which represents the attributes of the Java Object. In the case of lists and arrays, the collection can represent the list itself.
 - JSON can be modelled by SQL++, using
   - names for JSON keys.
   - values for JSON values.
     - atomic values for JSON terminal values.
     - tuple values for JSON arrays.
     - expression values for JSON nested maps.

#### SQL++ Language
 - Backwards compatible with SQL.
 - Has extensions over SQL :
   - Nested Value Output : In normal SQL, subqueries in the SELECT clauses are only allowed to output scalar values. For example, in the following query, the subquery outputs a value which will result with the addition of an extra column. 
			
			SELECT Ord.SalesOrderID, Ord.OrderDate,
			    (SELECT MAX(OrdDet.UnitPrice)
			     FROM AdventureWorks.Sales.SalesOrderDetail AS OrdDet
			     WHERE Ord.SalesOrderID = OrdDet.SalesOrderID) AS MaxUnitPrice
			FROM AdventureWorks2008R2.Sales.SalesOrderHeader AS Ord	
     - However, regular SQL does not usually allow having more than one column in the SELECT clause of the nested query. This is possible in SQL++ and will lead to a nested table. This allows to encode a JSON object with nested maps to be encoded in a relational-like language.
   - Heterogeneity : In SQL, the FROM clause support a table as input (which we can interpret as an SQL++ object with an expression value made of tuple expressions). SQL++ allows any SQL++ object as input (value,ref,tuple,expression). This means the query will iterate on non-homogeneous tuples (we could be iterating over an atomic value followed by a nested table, for example).
     - Moreover, SQL++ allows UNION inputs to be heterogeneous. What does it look like?
   - Navigation in nested values and navigation through object graph.
     - the SQL++ FROM clause allows input collection which expressions point to other variables. The navigation of SQL++ can access nested values and nesting created by object references.
   - location transparency of queries
   - Non-set results.       
 
#### Algebra Overview
 - A logical plan p = T1 <- e1;...;Tn <- en is a list of assignments of expressions to temporaries.
 - Each ei is SQL++ expression that may involve any of the previously computed temporaries. (Note : if a temporary is used by several expressions, should we consider materializing them?).  
 - Each tuple in the result of an SQL++ query has a format which we have seen previously {a1 : v1, ..., an :vn}. Each ai must come from one of the variables in the FROM clause, or from some value reachable via the variables (such as one created by an aggregation). As such, we will call the ai binding attributes, and the tuple containing these attributes a binding tuple.
 - New SQL++ operators. These operators have one child c which will output input binding tuples {t1,...,tn}. For each binding tuple ti from the input, the following operators do :
   - ground : takes no input table and returns a tuple with a single empty binding attribute : ``{[]}``
   - scan (``Scan_{s -> a}``): for each expression ej in the collection ``s``, ``ti#[a : ej]`` (where a is some randomly generated alias).
   
			\scan_{({Fruits:[{name:apple,color:green,age:4},{name:banana,color:yellow,age:5}]}) -> fruit}(Ground)
			=> [{fruit : {name:apple,color:green,age:4}},
				{fruit : {name:banana,color:yellow,age:5}}])
     
   - navigate (``Nav_{s.p1.p2.[...].pm -> a}``): outputs ``ti#[a : v]`` where v is the expression resulting from the path ``s.p1.p2.[...].pm``.   
   - scan navigate (``ScNa_{a.p1 -> a1,...,a.pn -> an}``): combination of scan and navigate.
   - nesting via grouping (``NEST(A1,...,At) -> N``) : used within the context of an aggregation ``(\gamma_{G1...Gn:NEST(A1,...,At) -> N})``, consider each subgroup ``li`` for each combination ``G1...Gn``. Each li is transformed into a nested table for attribute N.
     - example : 
				
				\gamma_{name;NEST(color,age) -> meta}({v0:[
					{name:apple,color:green,age:4},
					{name:apple,color:red,age:2},
					{name:apple,color:yellow,age:1},
					{name:banana,color:yellow,age:5}]}) 
				=>[{name: banana, meta : [{color:yellow,age:5}]},
				   {name: apple, meta : [{color:green,age:4},{color:red,age:2},{color:yellow,age:1}]}] 
   - partition (``X_{G1...Gn;e_X}``) : partition over G1...Gn on some input expression e_X.
   - function (``\lambda_{f(A1...An) -> N}``) :
     - example :
				\lambda_{concat(name,age) -> short}({v0:[
					{name:apple,color:green,age:4},
					{name:banana,color:yellow,age:5}]})
				=>{ v0 : [{name:apple,color:green,age:4,short:applegreen},
						  {name:banana,color:yellow,age:4,short:bananayellow}]}
  - Discussion continued on 12-02-14.

 
### Distributed Aggregation Rewriter Implementation
Objective : Find a way to insert the newly found rewriting rules as a new query rewriter in the query processor code.
 - where in the query processing pipeline do we want to insert the rewriter.
 - what form of query should the query rewriter expect as input.
 - what form of query should it output.

