### Distributed System Architecture 

#### Distributed HashTable
 - Class of centralized distributed systems
 - Data is distributed over a giant hash table distributed over all the peers (each peer has a part of the hash table).
 - Responsibility for maintaining the key mapping is also distributed among peers in such a way that minimizes disruption (if one node fails, the keys it mapped should also be mapped elsewhere).

#### Shared Nothing Architecture 
 - Each node is independent and self sufficient.
 - Data is not (or very little) shared across nodes.
 - consistency and data access is maintained through protocols.
 - No point of contention 
 - sharding : partition data among many databases on different machines. 

### Stores 
Both row stores and column stores are storage architectures of records on disk relational DBMS. 
 - Assume a block size is *b*
 - Assume *m* is the number of attributes for a given table.  
 - Assume *n* is the number of records stored in that table.

### Row Stores
 - Most traditional RDBMS are row stores.
 - Each record is stored sequentially on a disk block.
 - Accessing all attributes of a record requires *m/b* blocks (which are sequentially stored on disk).
 - Accessing all *n* values in a table for a given attribute in a table requires *n* disk accesses.
 - In OLTP, most actions require reading or updating entire record, making row stores optimal for this purpose.
 
#### Column Store
 - Values for a given attribute are stored sequentially.
 - Accessing all attributes of a record requires *m* disk accesses.
 - Accessing all values for a given attribute require *n/b* disk accesses.  

### Map-Reduce

#### Hive
 - Hive uses its own data model for data storage into the Hadoop Distributed FileSystem. It converts input queries (written in HiveQL) into a DAG of MapReduce jobs,and thus saves the user from ahving to write the more complex MapReduce jobs directly.

### Benchmarks

#### YCSB
 - Extensible platform for designing workloads to test performance of NoSQL and cloud databases.

#### TPC-H
 - Stands for Transaction Processing Performance Council H.
 - It is a benchmark for measuring performance for decision support queries (analytical queries).
 
## Distributed Aggregation
I am trying to formalize the requirements of the distributed semi-join aggregation technique.

 - We start from the intuition of the semi join technique.
 - The intuition consist of thinking that  
