## Review Sigmod Record paper
 - There are numerous different terms for sql++ values in the BNF, and it is hard to follow what is the difference between each one of them.
   - missing
   - null
   - tuple
   - primitive
   - complexity
   - defined
   - enriched
   - collection
   - list
   - bag
   - map

### Data model

Pros :
  - tuples are well explained.
  - the similar concepts paragraph (in the intro of the data model) is very insightful into comparing SQL and JSON.
  - types are clear

Cons :
 - A lot of new terms are introduced in the BNF grammar, and it is not clear from reading chapter 3.1 what is the difference between each term.
   - In particular, it is hard to follow what is the different between :
     - missing and null :
       - my understanding is that missing values denote absence of expected data while null values are values known to be null.
     - enriched value and a map :
       - my understanding is that an enriched value is suppose to represent a structure similar to a structure in C with no nesting. Can't we achieve the same thing using a map? 
 - I am not sure I understand this sentence (slightly modified) : "A first-class value can be nested everywhere in the data model."
   - The BNF grammar seems to be dictating where each type of values can be nested. Is it possible to clarify the difference?
 - What is the relationship between heterogeneity column in table 2 and the BNF grammar?
       






### Concepts 
 - semi structured data : data that does not contain a fixed schema but nevertheless contains some structure (tags, markers) and seperators between semantically different elements (XML and JSON are semi-structured).
 - BNF grammar : Backus Nauer form for a grammar. It is a set of derivation rules specified as :
 	- <symbol> ::= __expression__
