Jules,

Sorry for the delayed response!  Busy week.  We wrote a series of industrial papers for SIGMOD/VLDB about the BEA AquaLogic Data Services platform (my "real job" before UCI), and there's also a Data Services CACM article that I co-wrote with two ex-UCSD'ers a few years ago that might have some stuff in it.  Hopefully you can find those easily in DLBP now that you know to look for them - look for the papers in my authored papers list that have "Data Services" or "AquaLogic" in their titles and let me know if you aren't able to grab anything you want from the ACM DL.  Hopefully they will also refer to other relevant papers.  :-)  Also, Yannis (then a PhD student) and others at Stanford did the Tsimmis project in the late 1990's that looked specifically at semistructured models as a basis for data integration as I recall - so another thing to do is read those papers and then use ACM DL (or equivalent) to chain forward to newer papers that have referenced that work by he, Hector Garcia-Molina, and others in Tsimmis.  You might also find that Dan Suciu at Washington, or Alon (Ha)Levy and Dana Florescu (then at AT&T) did some XML-based data integration work "back in the day".

I think there's a whole bunch of interesting stuff related to semistructured data models like the AsterixDB model (partly schema'ed, partly not) - and to type evolution - that's untapped in AsterixDB because we've looked at plumbing and not at user-level "finishes" so far.  It might be possible, once you have SQL++ on AsterixDB, to use that as a platform and look at some of the schema evolution and more advanced data model stuff in that context (and at how to support evolution w/o having to touch the old data, which would be a showstopper).  BTW, there are a few really old but great data model papers I'd also recommend reading, from long long ago, as background - I would strongly recommend reading about DAPLEX (I think the paper was called "A Functional Data Model" in ACM TODS many years ago) and about GEM (just because it was one of the very first post-relational data models).

Cheers,
Mike