### Go over Romain's examples

Example 1


No distributed joins
Rewritings make the selection more user friendly.

### Questions

On example 1, what kind of algebraic operations are required before we can do operator pull down? I believe we can proceed
to operator pull down right away.
 
 
## Yannis meeting
 
 To execute customer={name : 'alice', age :35 } on Hive,you need to transform the condition into customer.name = 'alice' AND customer.age = 35 AND customer.* = nil (to be checked)
 This extra conversion required is not supported by a typical operator pull down.
 This conversion can't be done well a by a source wrapper on the middleware, because the selection customer.*=nil cannot be translate into the source language.
 Therefore, this selection has to be taken apart, where the conditions :
  - customer.name = 'alice' AND customer.age = 35 can be executed at the source
  - customer.* = nil can be executed only at the source. 
  
 Find source dependent rewriting rules that can help go around for each system. 
 Focus on operators that source use efficiently. We only want  to push operations to the source if there is a clear benefit over executing that operation in the middleware.
 Focus on big perfomance boosts for each source. 
  - A simple example would be pushing selections down.
  - Also push joins down for sources that handle them well.
  - Also focus about group by.
 Assume that the result of the execution of the pushed-down plan is condensing.
 
### First focus on Pushing selections down
Pushing selections down is the obvious candidate.
Condensing
   