## Preparation for may 19th meeting :
Directives :
 - Find source dependent rewriting rules that can help go around for each system. 
 - Focus on operators that source use efficiently. We only want  to push operations to the source if there is a clear benefit over executing that operation in the middleware.
 - Targets : 
   - Simple example would be pushing selections down.
   - Then move focus on group by and nesting. 
   - finally push joins down for sources that handle them well.

### Idea 
 - Focus on selection push down.
 - Generalize the selection push down framework to cover all languages (is it possible)?
   - Explain how to obtain P_R, as well as P_R_S for each language.
 - Assume previous architecture, see how far we get in terms of plan expressiveness using only selection push-down.

## Pushing selection down

### The problem
Recall example 1 from romain.To execute customer={name : 'alice', age :35 } on Hive, you need to transform the condition into customer.name = 'alice' AND customer.age = 35 AND customer.* = nil (to be checked)
This extra conversion required is not supported by a typical operator pull down.
This conversion can't be done well a by a source wrapper on the middleware, because the selection customer.*=nil cannot be translate into the source language.
Therefore, this selection has to be taken apart, where the conditions :
  - customer.name = 'alice' AND customer.age = 35 can be executed at the source
  - customer.* = nil can be executed only at the source.


#### Equality specifics in Hive
Hive has no semantics for complex type equality. 
Hive has two keywords to describe equality :

 - = : equality between scalar values  
 - <=> :  equality involving NULL
 
Hive does not support open types.
 
#### Open type SQL++ semantics
The given query can be transformed into :

SELECT customer, trim(order_review) 
FROM S.orders
WHERE customer = { name: 'Alice', age: 35 }

==>

SELECT customer, trim(order_review) 
FROM S.orders AS o
WHERE o.customer.name = 'Alice' (1) 
	AND o.customer.age = 35 (2)
	AND o.customer.* = missing (3)

(1), (2) are hive-compatible, but (3) is not.

### The solution
 
#### Splitting the selection
Consider first join-less queries with a single remote source S. 
The set P of *atomic* predicates in the WHERE clause can be decomposed into two sets :

 - P_S : the set of predicates that can be processed at S.
 - P_S- : the set of predicates that cannot

Then the set of predicates P_S can be pulled down to source S.

Assume now queries including joins and multiple remote sources. Let R be the 
set of relations located on site S. Then P_R is the set of *atomic* predicates involving only relations in R.
P_R can be decomposed into two sets : 
- P_R_S : the set of predicates that can be processed at S.
- P_R_S- : the set of predicates that cannot

Then the set of predicates P_R_S can be pulled down to source S.  

This technique can be applied to the eexample given earlier. Is it 

#### Atomic Predicates
In order to compute the set P_R of atomic 

An SQL++ complex predicate example :

user.profile = 
{ 	name : "Jules Testard",
	age : 22,
	birthdate : 21/10/1991,
	phoneNumbers : [
		0607588079
		8589979311
	],
	hobbies : {{
		{ 	
			"category" : "sport",
			"occupation" : "surfing"
		}
	}},
	chat_history : (
		'1014-03-12T20:00:00' : "Hello!",
		'1014-03-12T20:00:39' : "How are you today?",
	)
}

Can be rewritten as a set of scalar predicates accompanied by special values :

user.profile.name = "Jules Testard" AND
user.profile.age = 22 AND
user.profile.birthdate = 21/10/1991 AND
user.profile.phoneNumbers[0] = 0607588079 AND
user.profile.phoneNumbers[1] = 8589979311 AND
user.profile


Given SQL++ cannot navigate into bags, the 




### Pushing Groupby and nesting down

### Pushing joins down 