## Forward

###SQL++ paper
Read the newest version of the SQL++ paper.

####Key New Concepts

 - globally unique ids (and `::` symbol).
 - sfw_query vs expr_query.
 - SQL++ virtual views.
 - specification of expressiveness of schemas.
 - query evaluation environments.
 - INNER vs OUTER flatten.
 - SELECT TUPLE.
 - GROUP BY equivalence expressed as `IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`.
 - SQL++ Virtual Views : see in SQL++ query processor where those are described, if they are.
 
####Comments are shown below

 - On page 3, figure 1 : implementing the AsterixDB wrapper through hyracks directly instead of AQL might "break" the architecture shown on this figure (to some extent, because the architecture suggests that wrappers should communicate with databases, and hyracks is, in my understanding, not strictly a database).
 - Page 5 : I concur with Yannis. The term is JSON object, not JSON object literal.
 - opinion : it might be worthwhile (in Figure 3) to change the name from *missing* to *undefined*, for readers who are familiar with JSON/javascript.
 - opinion : I find the concept of globabbly unique ids confusing when not applied to top level elements. Do we have an example of database which uses globally unique ids within nested values?
 - Page 8, first paragraph : is the use of programmer as female on purpose? (typo)
 - Page 11, Fig. 6 : I am a little confused about lines 3, 30 and 31. What is the difference between 1) `sfw_query` and 2) `(sfw_query)`. Is 2) supposed to represent a subquery?
 - Page 12 : kudos for whoever decided to add the query environment figures with boxes, it's very clear.
 - Page 13 (second column, comment section): I disagree that `LIMIT/OFFSET` does not make much sense without `ORDER BY`. Not only is it valid SQL, it is also the desired behavior in some applications.
 - Page 14, figure 12 : typo, should be `m->k` instead of `m.k`, and should be `@map_nav` instead of `@tuple_nav`. Also, I think we can be more specific than *otherwise* when describing `@path_nav.type_mismatch` configurations. For example, I think the only use case for `@tuple_nav.type_mismatch` given expression `t.a` is when `t` is not a tuple.
 - Page 19, second column : It would help to mention specifically that there is no difference between the keywords `SELECT` and `SELECT TUPLE` in SQL++ (or is there any? [do `SELECT 2` and `SELECT TUPLE 2` produce the same ouptut?]). 
 - Page 19, last paragraph : what is meant by the sentence "... of using `SELECT ELEMENT` to project non-tuples"? I understand you do not mean project values which are not tuples (or else it contradicts figure 18)?

### Query Processor Initial plan Translation

#### Key points
 - Definition of logical and physical plan.
 - optional arguments for operator symbol : 
   - `OutputInfo` operator. This opreator contains contextual information obtained after procesing the operator it belongs to.
   - children operators
   - `ouptut_alias`
 - group by operator: use of functionally dependent terms in group by.

#### Comments
 - Variable definition : is it possible to have *absolute* variables that are created in an intermediate plan? If not, is it a desirable behavior?
 - *COPY* only makes sense in a multi source setting. Correct? **discarded**
 - While it is very clear what the `OutputInfo` operator contains while looking at the paragraph on page 12, it becomes very confusing when looking at the definition in the BNF on page 13 (how are variable and type information represented)?
 - On page 14 : in the sentence *Each operator inputs a set of binding tuples and outputs a set of binding tuples*, what is the relationship (if any) between the `OutputInfo` structure and the output set of binding tuples?
 - Page 15, scan operator implementation details : typo, shoul be "should be raised" and not "should raised".
 - Page 17, group by operator description : I would use another name than `f'` to describe the results of the aggregation functions, because the letter `f` is usually associated with a function, not its result. It got me confused at first.
 - Page 20 : The operators described in the normal form does not seem to follow the syntax described on page 17. In particular, it does not contain the list of functions used by the operator, only the 
  
**I have not gone over the algorithms in section 4.5 to give detailed enough questions**  

## Music

### Improvements to iPhone Composer
 - The documentation can be improved to make the setting up process easier. 1 hour
 - The application should be distributed as a python package to have it standardized. 1 hour
 - The midi input/output interface should be more explicit, with dropdown selections. 1-2 hours
 - A little harder, but great: have visual feedback on iPhone for specific values selected. 3-4 hours

### Meeting with Shlomo Dubnov
- Lots of dependencies
- JACKOSX is a problem
- use macports