## Expressive Capabilities Description Languages and Query Rewriting Algorithms. ##

### Definitions ###
Information Integration System (IIS) : system in which information is stored while remaining accessible through a query interface. 

### Abstract ###
 - Information Integration Systems have to deal with many sources with various query capabilities.
 - To deal with this problem, we need :
   - A way of describing query capabilities for individual sources.
   - A way of answering a query in a system with varying query capabilities. 
   - In other words, a way of formulating a efficient query plan given source specific query restrictions. 
   - A way to translate the query in a format the source understands.
 - Two languages are derived to answer these requirements and their expressive power are compared.
 - Using one of the languages, we derive the query capabilities of the entire system from those of each individual source.
 - We show an algorithm that decides whether a query matches the source description of the system.
 - We show how to use this algorithm to translate a user-specified query into source-specific queries.
 - We give new algorithms to answer distributed queries using these descriptions.
 - We identify one class of query descriptions for which the shown algorithms are more efficient.
 
### Introduction ###

 - IISs have to provide a single query language for the user which abstracts the query capabilities specifics of the underlying sources.
 - The classic distributed query processor architecure is described :
   - The mediator parses user-specifies queries, derives an efficient source annotated query plan.
   - Each single-source portion of the query plan is sent to its corresponding wrapper, which translates it into a source native languageand sends it to the source.
   - Note that queries received by the wrappers have to be handled by the sources, the wrappers do not any query rewriting (only translation). The mediator is responsible for sending appropriate query plans to the wrappers.
 - As such, both wrappers and mediator need to know query capabilities of each individual source.
 - An example query which demonstrates this requirement :
   - Given table Lookup(employee,manager,specialty), get all managers with at least one employee specialized in Java and at least one employee specialized in Databases
   - SELECT DISTINCT(manager)
   - FROM Lookup AS M1, Lookup AS M2
   - WHERE M1.manager=M2.manager,M1.specialty=java,M2.specialty=databases
 - The architecture of a mediator is described :
   - Resource Locator : Annotates each relation with its origin.
   - Capabilities Based Rewriter (CBR) : this module uses the source descriptions to adapt to the query capabilities of the sources.
   - Query optimizer
   - Query distribution engine
 - CBR solves the capability Based Rewriting Problem : how to answer any given client query given the query capability restrictions imposed by the sources?
 - In this paper we focus on conjunctive queries.
 
#### Topics and Novel Contributions ####

 - P-datalog : 	first language described.
  - Set of queries supported by the language defined. 
  - wrapper uses a p-datalog procedure to determine whether a query is described by a p-datalog description and what translating actions can be executed.
  - mediator uses a procedure that determines whether a query exists using combined source-specific supported queries.
  - Non-deterministic exponential run-time.
 - P-datalog cannot describe the space of all possible queries.
 - RQDL is a language for which similar procedure have been derived yet is more expressive.
 - A reduction from RQDL to P-datalog augmented with function symbols is provided.
 - A class of descriptions for which CBR is particularily efficient is identified.
 - Algorithm that takes as input descriptions of queries supported by the wrapper. 
 
### 2. P-Datalog language (20 min) ###

### 3. Deciding Query expressibility (20 min) ###
 - subgoals : source specific query plans
 - ordinary relations : non-equal relations.
 - canonical dbs are derived from rectified conjunctive queries.
 - frozen facts
 - algorithm 3.4 (QED) : 
   - Input : User-defined query Q and p-datalog description P
   - Output : Set of source-specific queries Qi expressible by P and equivalent to Q if it exists.
 - Algorithm sufficient to translate user-defined query into source-specific query for wrappers.

### 4. Answering queries using p-datalog description (20 min) ###
 - The CBR problem.
 - It is enough to rewrite Q using only queries in Qi. 
 - equivalent rewriting of query using finite number of views is NP-complete.
 - Two step algorithm :
   - QED to find the set of rewritings Qi. N = e^n
   - Finds a rewriting using views. R = e^(N*S)= (e^S)^(e^n), S=size of canonical db
   

### 5. Interesting class of p-datalog descriptions (10 min) ###
 - Class for which CBR is only exponential time.

### 6. Expressive power of datalog (5 min) ###
 - Problem : for every schema S and p-datalog description P, there exists a query Q not expressible by P.

### 7.8. RQDL + mediator capabilities (20 min) ###
 - Extension of p-datalog with predicate tokens instead of relation names (not to confuse with paramater taokens from p-datalog).
 - arbitrary arity of relations is allowed (schemaless descriptions) using *vector variables*.
 - use of metapredicate items
   - ans <- $r(V),item(V,$a,X'),equal(X',$c)
   - ans <- books(title : X, isbn : Z), equal(X,dataMarts) 
   - these two queries can be mapped together :
     - ans <- books(title : X, isbn : Z),item(title : X, isbn : Z,"title",X),equal(X,dataMarts)
 

### 9. Reducing RQDL to P-datalog (skipped) ###
