## Interactive Query Formulation over Web Service-Accessed Sources ##

### Abstract ###
This paper presents a system which suggest feasible queries for interaction with a web service API, given
that the API may only support a limited set of queries.

### Introduction ###
 - Sources specify a set of queries that can be answered directly only using views over their schema.
 - Mediator may add a set of indirectly supported queries through rewritings from the source set(s).
 - CLIDE provides a way to guide user towards feasible queries, and indicate actions that lead to infeasible ones.
 - CLIDE provides a color scheme which guides the user and indicate valid (feasible) queries.
 - A number of service oriented architectures are studied : 
   - Amazon's E-commerce service
   - Google Web service API
   - Dell and Cisco query services seen as parametrized views of their respective schemas.
 - An integrated portal (IntP) is constructed with a mediator which accesses Dell and Cisco's query services. 
 - Examples are given of feasible and unfeasible queries using the IntP are given.
 - The color scheme for queries is given :
   - Red shows actions which will necessarily lead to unfeasible queries.
   - Yellow shows actions that are necessary for a feasible query to work.
   - Blue indicate several actions of which at least one is necessary to lead to a feasible query.
   - White are optional actions.
 - deciding whether a given query is feasible is a rewriting problem, but this is not enough for CLIDE.
 
#### Contributions ####
 - CLIDE is complete, minimal and converges rapidly.
 - Challenge for clide is that coloring properites cannot be trivially find since they require the enumeration of a potentially infinite number of possibility.
 - only the set of closest feasible queries are described by CLIDE.
 - prior algorithms can be leveraged to find maximally contained rewritings, but we need to :
   - extend them in order to achieve online performance.
   - ensure we only show queries that are syntqactic extensions of the current query.


#### Definitions and Notations ####
 - CLIDE only supports conjunctive queries under set semantics.
 - Valid operators :
   - SELECT DISTINCT
   - FROM
   - WHERE : predicates of the where clause are called atoms (selection for =constant and join for =variable) 
 - column associations : these relationship identify pairs of clomuns across sources where a join is meaningful. The set of queries with column associations is called C^

### Query Building Interface ###
 - GUI interface which allows easy, intuitive formulation of queries within a restricted environment.
 - Three actions :
   - table action (drop new table on the screen)
   - select action (choose a selection argument on the selection box of the selected table.
   - join action (draws a line between rows of to table, suggesting a join attribute equality predicate.
   - project action

### CLIDE interface in presence of limited access methods ###
 - Shows color scheme example in interactive session.
 
 
 - Show required and optional actions (yellow and white).
 - Choice within required actions (blue).

#### Specification of Clide's color scheme ####

 - Interactions with CLIDE are modelled using an interaction graph (**IG**).
   - Nodes N have labels q(n) which represent a query. There is only one node n such that q(n)=q for each expressible query q. n is feasible iff q(n) is feasible.
   - Edges E are user actions (as descrbibed above).
 - Edges are colored according to the color scheme previously defined.

#### Closest feasible queries ####
 - Given interaction graph IG, the set of closest feasible queries from node n is the set Q={q(n1)...q(nk)} such that every query in Q is feasible and there is no node 
 - n' such that n' is on one of the paths n->n1...n->nk and q(n') is feasible. The definition is quite intuitive.
 - We restrict the search for clide to the set of closest feasible queries within a bounded distance, to avoid excessive running time. 

#### Maximally contained feasible queries ####
 - foreach maximally contained query q1, q1 is feasible. 
 
## Back on Semi Join reduction ##

#### Adding to the SVN latex ####	