## Semi-join Reduction ##
 - chapter was commmitted on the SVN, but the syntax used was different then our standard.
 - modifying syntax to align with db group standard.

## Reading Data Access Paper ##

### Data Model ###
 
 - SQL++ object is a pair of an *id* and SQL++ value.
 - ids can be named or unnamed :
   - named ids can be written in queries.
   - unnamed ids cannot.
 - SQL++ value can be :
   - an atomic value
   - an object reference or *null*.
   - a tuple [a1 : v1, ... , an : vn] where ai's are ids and vi's are values.
   - a collection { e1 , ... , en } where each ei is a value.
 - since SQL++ is an extension of SQL, Collage easily models an SQL++ database as an SQL++ source.

### Query Language ###
 - SQL++ allows nested tables : the SELECT clause can contain any SQL++ subquery.
 - SQL++ allows variables from FROM clauses to range over any type a collection has.
 - SQL++ allows both arguments of UNION to be heterogenenous (different schema).
 
### Plans and Algebra Overview ###
 - Each attribute of a table is a variable or a value reachable from the variables => binding attribute.
 - Each tuple corresponds to a *binding* of the variables => binding tuple.
 - SQL++ extends operators to allow binding attribute values to be collections, tuples and object references.
 - The list of standard operators is given in the green book.
 - given binding tuple t, attribute name a (a not in attributes(t)) and value v:
   - t#[a:v] : tuple resulting from adding attr/value pair a:v to the list that t already has => i.e. this extends the schema by adding a column.
 - List of novel operators is given in the green book.
   - Scan_{s -> a} : s is an attribute name or object id, vc = {e1,...,en} is its value and Scan_{s -> a} returns t#[a:e1]...t#[a:en] for each binding tuple t in the input table.
   - Nav_{p1,...,pm -> a} : g	