### Clean Up SVN ###
 - Remove deprecated references (option graphs, rewriters)
 - **left off page 42**
 
### Definitions
 - ACID :
   - atomicity
   - consistency
   - isolation
   - durability
 - OLAP : Online Analytical Processing
 - OLTP : Online Transaction Processing
 - Skyline computation : has to do with computing matrices by only considering cells close to the diagonal.
 - Rank join : top-k join, which joins two table without looking at all tuples of either relation.
 - RDF: Resource Description Framework. it allows sharing of data over the web, whether structured or semi-structured.
 
## Garlic Paper

### Garlic Intro
 - need to interrelate data stored on different system with varying capabilities.
 - query optimizer for Garlic data intergration middleware.
 - Used a rule based approach in heterogeneous environment.
 - use generic rules for middleware, using wrapper provided rules for encapsulating data sources.
 - we define generic rules for middleware and wrapper provided rules for to encapsulate capabilities of data sources.

### Garlic System
 - Every data source is a wrapper (hides source interface and enable access to datasource for Garlic's internal protocols).
 - Data model is object oriented (ODMG) : data in source viewed as objects (tables?records?).
 - query processing capabilities are given for each wrapper as a set of rules.
 - system catalog records the global schema, as well as wrapper specifics (note that each data source *must* have a wrapper).
 - garlic has query services (i.e. mediator) with two components :
   - query language processor
     - includes the optimizer
   - distributed query engine
 - regular optimizers (distributed or local) need to know the full set of available execution strategies to find the optimal plans.
 - garlic's optimizer finds good plan without built-in knowledge of data sources and cost.
 - garlic's query engine is able to perform a wide set of operations and allows Garlic t compensate for functionality not present on the data sources, and execute those operations himself.

### Query Optimization in Garlic
 - Garlic uses a set of STrategy Alternative RuleS, or STARS
 - Garlic's enumerator fires STARs to build plans bottom-up
 - Some STARs are generic
 - Through a dynamic programming algorithm, the optimizer selects a winning plan based on cost


#### Plans and Operators
 - The plan is then translated into an executable format
 - Plans in Garlic are trees of operators
 - Operators (or POP) are :
   - join
   - sort
   - filter : select/project
   - fetch : retrieve data from data source
   - temp : temp collection
   - scan : retrieve local data
   - pushDown : encapsulate work to data source (send to wrapper)
   - no aggregation
 - plans have sets of properties
   - the set of properties is fixed
   - the work done by the wrappers is not understood by Garlic, but the set of properties contains enough information for Garlic to appropriately incorporate push-down POPs in its query optimization
   - notice that each POP in the rooter 
 - plans and their outputs are characterized by the following 8 properties :
   - tables : set of tables that have been accessed and/or joined
   - columns : set of columns of the output of a plan
   - preds : predicates applied to the plan 
   - source : where is the output produced (data source id or mediator)
   - materialize : TRUE if plan materialized, FALSE if not
   - Order : if tuples are sorted
   - cost
   - card : estimated number of tuples
 - fig 3 shows an example plan. In this plan, we clearly see how pushdown operators are used on the Mail and DB2 data sources, we also see properties for the plan at each operator.

#### Using STARS to optimize plans
 - STARS are grammar production rules that generate plans.
 - a single star may generate several plans.
 - STARs have the form : star(params) := \forall e \in set : f1(f2(),f3(),...) if [condition]
 - Example star : FetchCols(T,C,Plan) := Fetch(T,C',Plan) if C'!=\empty, C' = C - Plan.Columns
   - it constrcuts a fetch operator if there are columns needed which do not appear in the input plan.
 - top-most	non-terminal symbol is a root. roots are for:
   - select
   - group by
   - insert
   - delete
   - update
 - For purposes of paper we use the roots :
   - accessRoot(single collection access)
   - joinRoot
   - finishRoot
 - Generic STARs. They create push-down POPs. These STARs are prefixed by repo (because they are non-local) :
   - RepoAccess
   - RepoJoin
 - Generic STARs invoke rules (other STARS) the wrapper may have provided and use their result to build the properties for a push-down POP.
 - For example, a repoAccess which attempts to access non-local data will call a plan_access rule defined by the wrapper for the data source if it exists.
   - plan access returns wrapper plans.
   - plan access is defined by the wrapper.
   - for every plan returned by plan access, we create a push-down POP to send that plan to the data source.

#### Plan Enumeration and Dynamic Programming
 - plans are enumerated by invoking appropriate wrappers for root stars. This happens in several phases :
   * enumerator uses the access root star on every collection in the query, which itself invokes repo access when the source is not the mediator.
   * join root star is used	which may invoke RepoJoin to join all relations.
     - the Repo join STAR is applied iteratively, each join passes two plans and a join predicate (which allows for generation of all possible join trees).
     - the joinRoot star is applied once all joins have been examined.
     - pruning is applied 
   

### Literature Survey
link is [here](https://github.com/jtestard/ResearchThoughts/blob/master/14-01/literature-survey.md) 