# Microsoft Interview Prep
 - Read info about interviews at microsoft.
 - Check resume to see domain of expertise given.
   - SQL
     - Do a review of non-trivial SQL (views, partitions and so forth).
   - Be ready to explain projects.
     - do this in the plane for silicon valley.
 - Tech quiz 
   - Rest, SOAP, web service API
   - Hadoop, map-reduce
   - data warehousing, datacubes
 - Area of expertise 
   - normalize relational schema
   - review of SQL queries
 - General programming
   - software design
   - concurrency control
   - software testing

### Interview Experience

#### really awesome indie dev : 

 - questions asked were not too hard.
 - contains a lot of testing questions, be prepared
 - software design question : how to design a vending machine.

### Forbes 
 - Expected thought process for coding questions :
   - ask clarification questions
   - design a solution (by speaking and/or drawing)
   - test informally the design to the solution
   - write code
   - test code 

### danieru
  - interns get hired more easily than full time.

### java
 - leetcode 18/150! :)
 - bitshift and bitwise ops : Give a one-line C expression to test whether a number is a power of 2. No loops allowed.
  - the number will be in binary a list of zeros except for a single 1.
  - with loop is easy.
 - bit operators :
   - unary bitwise operator ~ : inverts bits in a integral type (byte,short,int,long). Example : 
     - byte a = +42 = 0x2A = 0010 1010
     - ~a =  = 0xD7 = 1101 0101
   - << bit shift operator (left) : shifts bits. Not a rotation, leftmost bits discarded and rightmost bits replaced with 0's. Does not work with byte.
     - a << N : shift N bits on the left.
   - >> bit shift (right) :  rightmost bits are discarded and leftmost bits are replicated (not always 0's).
   - >>> unsigned bit shift right (last bit is normally used for sign)
   - & bit-wise AND
   - | bit-wise OR
   - ^ bit-wise XOR
 - Given an array of characters which form a sentence of words, give an efficient algorithm to reverse the order of the words (not characters) in it.

## Tech quiz
 - cloud
 - big data
 - Simple Object Access Protocol
 - restful : representational state transfer. Web service standard.
 - agile development : iterative, incremental programming
   - break task into small increments, do each increment at a time.
   - cross functional teams : design, code, test 

## Areas of expertise

## General Programming Knowledge
 - backtracking : building up partial solutions and discarding them when they are no longer optimal/cannot lead to valid solution.

### Software design

#### Design a vending machine
 - products
 - clients
 - balance
 - keep product inventory consistent
 - keep balance consistent with the inventory
 - interface with the client
 - we assume this is a single vending machine which is accessed by clients sequentially. As a result, no concurrency control is needed.
 - object oriented design

### Classes ###

 - product manager 
   - attributes
     - Products = array of products
     - balance manager
   - methods
     - add_product(Product,Quantity)
     - purchase_product(Product,Quantity)
     - retrieve_cash_manager()
     - retrieve_cash_client()
 - product
   - attributes
     - Name
     - Cost
     - Quantity
 - balance manager
   - attributes
     - global_balance
     - client_balance
   - methods
     - addToBalance(account,amount)
     - removeFromBalance(account,amount)
 - client interface
   - attributes
     - product manager
   - methods
     - InspectProducts()
     - buyProduct(Product,Quantity=1)
     - getChange()
 - manager interface

### Testing

 - Functional testing - does it work? does real output match expected output on "regular case"
 - Edge cases - test limits of a single parameter
 - Corner cases - test limited of multiple parameters
 - Stress test - simulate lots of users of a service
 - Scale testing - how does it handle inputs of absurdly large size?
 - Cross-functional testing - how does it impact other parts of the code base?
 - Accessibility testing - is usability affected if the user is color-blind, deaf, etc?
 - Geo-political testing - does it still make sense in other areas with different cultures? (I learned about this during interviews)
 - black box testing : testing without seeing the code. Test by giving inputs and comparing the procedure output with the expected output.
 - white box testing : testing by inspecting the code and checking 
 
### Questions 

 - Why do you want to work at Microsoft : I want to work in a place that is both challenging and where I can work on something that will have an impact directly on the people around me. I believe that Microsoft is such a place. 
 - What do you see yourself doing in five years : Well I'd like to be done with my Ph.D. by then, and then work in a research position in the industry. I already know academia is not what I want to do. I don't like to just stop at ideas. I like to get things done.
 - Why are you doing a Ph.D. : I discovered research in 2011, and I loved it. It also a challenging job that really requires thinking, which I really like.
 - Why did you choose to do a SDE internship instead of a research internship : research internships have to be, to the best of my knowledge, linked to some similar research done at microsoft. I believe I am too early in my Ph.D. for a research internship.  
 - How can you be an asset to Microsoft : I believe I have good programming skills, am really motivated and am interested by microsoft projects. I wish to get as much as I can get from this experience (the internship), and I think I can meet (and even exceed) microsoft's expectations. 
 - What is the biggest thing you believe you have done : I have published a demonstration paper in the arguably the top world-wide database research conference while still in undergrad.
