### Survey

#### First circle
 - The SQL-based All-Declarative FORWARD Framework [CIDR 2011]
 - hStorage-DB : Heterogeneity-aware Data Management to Exploit the full capability of Hybrid Storage Systems [VLDB 2012]
 - Scalable transactions across heterogeneous Key-value Data stores [VLDB 2013]
 - Materializing SQL queries in key-value stores [SIGMOD 2014]

#### Second circle 
 - How Achaeans Would Construct Columns in Troy [CIDR 2013]
 - Holistic Optimization by Prefetching results [SIGMOD 2012]
 - CitrusLeaf: Real-time NOSQL DB which Preserves ACID [VLDB 2011]
 - Microsoft SQL Server's Integrated Database Approach to Modern Applications and Hardware [VLDB 2013]

We should first look at the four articles of the first circle and investigate how these different articles can be compared :
 - what are there goals (problems they are trying to solve), 
 - what is their angle to tackle the problem.
 - how do the goals relate to each other.

#### The SQL-based All-Declarative FORWARD Framework
 - Problem :
   - Database-driven Web Applications need a lot of plumbing code to be written even for a small amount of business logic.
   - The state of the application has to be maintained across the three application layers :
     - visual layer
     - application logic layer
     - database layer
   - Each layer uses different languages, plumbing code is required to transform data objects from one representation to another in order to transfer data from one layer to the other.
   - Modern web applications which use AJAX need specific plumbing code for each user interaction and on each layer.
 - Are we capable of making the developer's life easier by automating of all of this predictable, logic-independent plumbing code?
 - Solution : 
   - Yes, through the use of SQL++, a variant of SQL, we only require the developer to define the logic of his application and we take care of all the plumbing code.
   - By logic, we mean :
     - what is the data? relational=(table name, schema)
     - where it is located ? Main memory session, SQL databse, commercial web-service (facebook api, google api...), NoSQL key-value store...
     - what logical operations should be applied to the data?
     - where it should be displayed
   - single language access

#### Holistic Data Access Optimization for analytics report
 - In the previous paper, we develop a framework and language to help the developer focus on the logic of his application and minimize the plumbing code he is required to do. 
 - Following this, we also want to extend that framework in order to optimize the queries (including analytical queries) the developer writes in that language.
 - This is why we develop the Forward Query Optimizer called Collage.
 - This optimizer integrates data from multiple heterogeneous sources which the developer specified, and finds an optimal way to execute that query using :
   - set-at-a-time semantics
   	- denormalized and normalized sets
   	- performance using normalized sets is highly superior.
 - We integrate external objects without requiring an explicit mapping.
   - we integrate SQL, JSON and java sources. We extend our integration using wrappers.
   - we provide optimality given a set of sources and its query capabilities (we wish to do).
 
#### H-StorageDB : Heterogeneity-aware Data Management to Exploit the Full Capability of Hybrid Storage Systems
 - We do not know how to use properly heterogeneous storage systems.
 - We do a lot of things with heterogeneous systems sub-optimally even after a lot of human effort has been put in.
 - We do not try to change our heterogeneous system to a homogeneous one. Instead we want to take advantage of the capabilities of each storage device.
 - We have a framework designed for heterogeneous storage management, called hStorageDB.   
 - Using this framework, we can collect and use semantic information that is otherwise unavailable yet very important for the management of a heterogeneous system.
 - We have some performance analysis. Substantial
 - The heterogeneity mentioned in this paper is the heterogeneity of storage devices available to a database system, not the heterogeneity of data sources format and/or query capabilities.
 - The problem is fundamentally different, and a way of mapping this problem to our problem remains to be examined. 

#### Scalable Transactions across Heterogeneous NoSQL Key-Value Data Stores
 - How to implement multi-item transactions (atomic, safe, reversible data state changes) in heterogeneous systems (data stores with heterogeneous formats).
 - A prototype implementation is offered.


#### Materializing SQL Queries in Key-Value Stores
 - we need to store more data -> ACID compliant databases have scalability issues -> we use more simple. light-weight systems such as key-value stores. 
 - For details about features of different flavors of key-values stores see Cartell's survey (SIGMOD record).
 - We have examples of applications which need the high performance insertion/look up provided by key value stores but also need an "online view" of the data managed by the system.
   - application performance manager (APM) : monitors performance of an enterprise system.
   - Smart traffic manager (STM) : traffic management on roads an highways. Data comes from sensors such as cameras, loop detectors, smartphone geolocalization... this data has to be inserted at a very fast rate. Using materialized views data can be accessed fast in any format.

#### Microsoft SQL Server's integrated database approach for modern applications and hardware
 - We want to build a modern database fit for the modern usage we have of data :
   - store huge amounts of data
   - maximize consistency for queries through transaction processing
   - process huge amounts of data for analytics processing
 - Different types of technologies are required for each task. 