Hi Alvin,

Here are the answer to your questions, in order :

##### 1. Please provide your availability for a technical phone interview in the next 2-3 weeks (between 10am-4pm Pacific Time, Monday - Friday). Please list your timezone & best phone number to use.

 - Time Zone : Pacific Time
 - Best Phone : (+1) 858-997-9311
 - Times : 
   - Wednesday 21st of october (11:00am-4:00pm)
   - Thursday 22nd of october (10:00am-4:00pm)
   - Friday 23nd of october (10:00am-2:00pm)
 
 
##### 2. We currently only have open positions in San Bruno and Mountain View, CA - is this okay with you?
Yes

##### 3. What is your GPA for each degree completed and in progress?  Please provide transcripts (unofficial is fine).
 - Grad GPA : 3.77 (UCSD, 2015)
 - Undergrad GPA: 3.31 (McGill University, 2013)

##### 4. Will you require work authorization and sponsorship to work in the U.S.?
I am an international student with an F-1 visa, and I will be eligible for OPT and for the STEM extension program. Once those programs expire, I will be needing an H1-B visa.

##### 5. If you are interviewing with other companies, what stage in the hiring process are you in? Do you currently have any time deadlines or constraints? When is your expected start date if you were to receive an offer?

I am interviewing with other companies: Amazon, Microsoft and Informatica.  

- I will have a final round interview with Amazon on October 12th.
- I already have an offer with Informatica which expires on November 2nd.
- I have a first round interview with Microsoft on October 21.

My expected start date if I was to receive an offer would be end of January (I expect my OPT process to complete by mid january).

##### 6. Do you know any full-time Googlers professionally or socially? If so please list them.

Yes. I have two friends working at Google :

 - Bonnie Qin : https://www.linkedin.com/pub/bonnie-qin/5a/b28/4a0
 - Diego Cedillo (has referred me) : https://www.linkedin.com/in/diegoxcd/en

##### 7. What kinds of engineering roles are you interested in? Are you open to working in other new/interesting areas? (please be brief)

I am open to software development roles which involve building large, web-scale software systems which impacts millions of users. I am open to explore new areas, in particular areas related to cloud computing and distributed systems.

##### 8. Strongest programming languages

Most proficient procedural programming languages :

 - Java
 - Python
 - Javascript

Specialized proficient languages :

 - SQL

##### 9. What are your technical areas of expertise?

My strongest areas of expertise are the following :

 - Web Application Development (full stack, but higher focus on back-end)
 - Database Development, Query Processing & Optimization (both SQL and NoSQL)
 - Data Integration and Database Middleware

The areas which I am interested in, but have less experience with :

 - Hadoop, Spark and Distributed Computing 
 - Natural Language Processing
 - Machine Learning Applications