### Semijoin Investigation 

We have made the point that a query processor that implements rewriters for both semi join reduction and eager/lazy aggregation should evaluate all possible distributed physical plans involving joins and aggregations.
The architecture of such a query processor has, however, not been described. We have to answer the following questions :

 - What is the assumed underlying architecture of the distributed query processor.
 - How are the two rewriters implemented within the query processor.
 - Which implementation of the rewriters will yield all possible plans.
 
#### Underlying Architecture
We may want to assume to have Starburst as the underlying architecture, as we consider it the canonical middleware rule based distributed query processor.
Here we follow the "state of the art" distributed query processor description given by Donald Kossman in his 2001 survey.

#### Implementation of the query rewriters
Each rewriter may require information about the system in order to evaluate if a rewriting is beneficial to the query plan. The information required by each rewriter is described here.

Eager/lazy aggregation rewriter :
 
 - selectivity of a join operation
 - selectivity of a aggregation operation
 - no information about distribution of data (this rewriter is unaware of distribution).
 - *cost* of an aggregation and join operations. This cost can be define as the I/O cost (number of block accesses) performed by the query processor for the aggregation operation.
 	- requires number of tuples for each relation.
 	- number of distinct values per join / aggregation attributes for each relation.

Semi-Join Reduction rewriter :

 - selectivity of join operation.
 - cost of join/semijoin operation.
 	- requires number of tuples for each relation.
 	- number of distinct values per join / aggregation attributes for each relation.
 - location of joined tables.
 - transfer cost per byte between sources
 - cost of a projection