### Check overlap between section 5 of query processor specification and what I have been looking at
 - How do set semantics interact with semijoin/eager/lazy aggregation?
 - I dont believe there is direct overlap, unless set semantics rewriting is implemented in the query optimization dynamic programming algorithm. 

### Objectives from last meeting
 - Connection of the new STARS with the required normal forms for finish rules to work.
 - Extend the garlic architecture to include NoSQL sources and see if the STARS break at one point.

### Extend garlic to support semi joins
 1. Read the garlic paper portion on wrapper specification
 2. Write a wrapper specification for some NoSQL source.
 3. Run an example using an SQL and a NoSQL source using the wrapper and see what you get.
 
####  Garlic Wrapper Specifications
All wrappers must implement the plan_access STAR. All wrappers must declare which collections can be accessed. 

Some wrappers fetch data from sources in a two step process, such as the mail wrapper:

 - wrapper plan_access STAR returns OIDs. This is done by the Quantifier operator. The quantifier is the most basic building block for a STAR. It returns the OIDs of objects from the source which are required for the fetch operator to function. The query it answers "SELECT OID FROM T 
 - query execution engine fetch operator uses wrappers methods that get info from OIDs.
 
The mail wrapper is the most simple. It only provides a way to obtain email OIDs. The fetch operator is then used for the actual email content. It is not clear where the OIDs are stored or why the messages cannot be read in full in the first place.

Some wrappers do it all at once :   

 - The relational wrapper has three STARs.
   - The plan_access STAR (T,C,P) applies a selection and a projection according to a set predicates and desired columns.  
   - The plan_bind STAR (T,C,P,plan) does the same but adds the predicates of the added plan to the underlying set.
   - The plan_join STAR (T1,T2,C,P) does call to the R_joinPOP operator on tables T1, T2. Since R_Join is an operator and not a STAR, I wonder how Garlic ships 3-ary joins to a database.
 
It seems the relation wrapper stars only allow pushing down SELECT-PROJECT-JOIN queries. Moreover, it seems that although two-ary joins can be pushed, it is not possible for Garlic to specify how to handle 3-ary joins.  


### points

 - write the wrapper for some NoSQL data source
 - find an example of a query that shows the limitations of the garlic rewriting scheme. More specifically, find a plan with a rewriting opportunity which our current garlic architecture would miss.