### Reading paper by Kian Win and Romain

#### Keywords
 - data model
 - query language 
 - data values
 - schemas and constraints : I am assuming that schemas specify contents of collections.
 - nested data : collection within a collection.
 - missing information
 - semantics for equality on non-scalar and heterogenous
 - semantics for ordering on non-scalar and heterogenous

### Comments

#### Introduction
 - The introduction clearly presents the goals of the survey and how SQL++ is used to specify the various query languages. Nothing to add here.
 - I do not know if the FORWARD paragraph of the introduction is relevant to the survey.
 - I concur romain's comment at the end of the intro.

### Preliminaries
 - The industry product categories are well explained. 
 - However, in the *other* paragraph, it is not clear why Google BigQuery is not put in either one of SQL or NewSQL categories, since it said that BigQuery resembles SQL, but no further details are given.
 
### Data Model

#### SQL++ Data model

 - On Figure 1 (BNF for SQL++ Values) :
   - What does "name" mean on line 16 : *tuple_value -> {name : defined_value, ...}*. I assume it is supposed to be a string. 
 - I understand the difference between primitive and enriched scalar values.
 - I understand the difference between an SQL++ bag and an SQL++ array. However, the naming is a bit strange. An SQL++ array is also a "bag" as a we commonly know it since it can contain duplicate values. Moreover, the word bag as we commonly know is also included later in the text, adding to the confusion. Why not change the names to "array" and "sorted_array" ? 
 - Just to make sure, according to the BNF, the following SQL++ value is valid. Is this correct?
 
        map( missing : 'some string')
 - Besides these minor complaints, the SQL++ data model is overall clear and well defined.

#### Data Model comparisons

 - On page 6 the numering is wrong : you are clearly describing Table 2, and there is no Table 3.1.1.
 - Otherwise, all clear.

#### Schemas
 - Overall very clear.
 - Minor (probably syntax error) : why is the map type written 
 
        map(type, type)
 - There can be only two types in a map (one for keys and one for values)?

#### Basic SPJ
 - Minor : Cell K5 of Table 4 (Feature Matrix for SPJ) should be a * instead of a check.

#### Nested Collections 
   
     
   
