### Questions on the operator specification

#### Scan operator
1) I do not understand the meaning of the following sentence :

     The Scan operator binds the variable s to the position of the v's in the b's

I understand that a binding value *b* is the set of concatenations of a single input binding value r and each binding value v in S. Given a single value b, then how many distinct values of s do we have? As many as values of v (distinct or not)?

2) Just to make sure I understand:

 - the value of *pv* is the index of value v in the original S
 - whereas *pos* is the index of value v for some binding *b*

But this positioning is assuming that the input binding is sorted. Can we make such an assumption?

In all cases I suggest giving an example would make things much clearer (and explain what each value corresponds to in the example).

#### Navigate Operator

I do not understand the Navigate operator, but answering the questions should suffice. One complaint would be that it is very difficult to guess the purpose of the navigate operator simply from its semantic description. Again, an example would help. 
Can we consider it as "effectively" a join (like the scan operator)?
 

#### Select
Nothing to add

#### Project
Nothing to add

#### Eliminate Duplicates
Nothing to add

#### Subquery
In the sentence :

    Each output binding b has one tuple binding value t which contains all the binding values of r.
    
Do you mean that the tuple binding t is some sort of nested collection? Again, an example would make things clearer.

#### Inner Join and Outer join
Nothing to add. However, would it be possible to join these two operators into a single Join operator whose specs could be :

 - inner
 - left
 - right
 - outer 

#### GroupBy
The purpose and specification of the functionally independent variables is well described. However, it would seem that the binding values for the input arguments to the aggregation functions are missing. Does this mean it is impossible to have as input argument to an aggregation function a binding value not listed in the terms t1, ..., tn?

#### Exists  
Nothing to add.

#### Partition
Nothing to add.

#### Union
Nothing to add.

#### Intersection
Nothing to add.

#### Except
Nothing to add.

#### Order by 
Nothing to add.

#### Apply plan
Nothing to add.

#### Assign 
Is it possible to elaborate on the dual role of the assign operator? maybe through an example? Otherwise all good.