### Plan 
 - taxes US federal (cleared)
 - Money transfer (cleared)
 - Reservation appartment SF
 - Read SQL
 - jsp : write small server. 
   - Installed Tomcat
   - Tomcat root directory for webapps is /Library/Tomcat.
   - Add .war files into it. Info can be found at 
 - Read Currently under-specified normal forms
 - Update the SQL normal form according to the new set of operators.

### Learning SQL
 - OVER statement
   - OVER clause always follows the attribute name.
   - OVER decides how rows are split for processing by the windowing function.
   - Interesting : OVER operator is linked to an attribute in the SELECT clause. One OVER statement is required for each attribute which uses a windowing function. Moreover, each windowing function can take a different partitioning.
   - By default, if ORDER BY is supplied then the frame consists of all rows from the start of the partition up through the current row, plus any following rows that are equal to the current row according to the ORDER BY clause.
   - If there is a need to filter or group rows after the window calculations are performed, you can use a sub-select. For example:
 
			SELECT depname, empno, salary, enroll_date
			FROM
			  (SELECT depname, empno, salary, enroll_date,
			          rank() OVER (PARTITION BY depname ORDER BY salary DESC, empno) AS pos
			     FROM empsalary
			  ) AS ss
			WHERE pos < 3;

 - WITH statement
 - PARTITION statement
 - WINDOW statement
   - It is similar to the WITH statement for windows. The window is declared seperately from the query and refered to by the OVER clauses (useful if using the same windowing for different partitions).
   - Example 
   
			select country, name, wage, sum(wage) over w, avg(wage) over w from "People"
			WINDOW w AS (PARTITION by country ORDER BY wage ASC) LIMIT 20;
 