### Plan
 - The current normal forms are built using operators that follow SQL++ semantics. 
   - However, operators of SQL and other languages have more restrictive semantics and.or configurations.
   - Our normal form must account for these more restrictive semantics by writing them down in plain english.


### Write the SQL normal form
- We already have the normal form written by Romain. We have to update it with the new operators.


### SQL reference

#### Extensions to the previous normal form :
Should SQL expressions be absent from the normal form? The EXISTS and CAST operators are not included here, probably because they are SQL expressions that are used to build a condition and not SQL operators themselves. They however may make sense if we allow subqueries within them. 

This is where normal forms are confusing, because a lot of operators appear because they were within an expression of a condition for another operator.  

#### Subqueries allowed in SQL
In order to come up with this information, I am using Postgres as a reference for the syntax. I assume there is no major variation
between the different SQL distribution which follow the SQL standard. Sources :

 - http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.2/static/sql-syntax.html
 - My own Postgres database

Here are clauses which allows for subqueries in standard SQL
  - Scalars allowed in SELECT clause (single tuples with a single column)
  - Allowed in FROM clause
  - allowed in where clause
    - preceded by an EXISTS (or NOT EXISTS)
    - if within an equality clause, only scalar values allowed.
    - not allowed within WHEN clause of CASE clause
  - GROUP BY and HAVING DO NOT allow subqueries at all
  - Allowed ORDER BY, LIMIT, OFFSET, PARTITION BY allowed using scalar values (in postgres leads to inconsistent results).
  - Allowed within function calls operators as scalars.
  
Valid Queries :

    SELECT AVG((SELECT COUNT(*) FROM "People")) FROM "People";
    SELECT country, name, wage, sum(wage) over w, avg(wage) over w from "People" WINDOW w AS (PARTITION BY (SELECT field3 FROM schema LIMIT 1) ORDER BY wage ASC) LIMIT 20;
  
#### Remarks
 - Should explain the difference between "condition" terms and "attribute" terms. It is not clear from the picture.
 - Remark about confusing use of the y_i in the normal form by romain. 
  - y_i is used as a naming variable in the window clause.
  - y_{pi} is used a term variable in the OVER clause of the SELECT DISTINCT.
Extra information about ORACLE :
 - http://docs.oracle.com/cd/B10501_01/server.920/a96540/expressions11a.htm#1033552
 
### MongoDB Reference