### MongoDB course :

 - JSON documents
 - Collections are collections of JSON documents.
 - ...

#### Nested Collection Support
 - Partially supported.
 
#### Summary of Meeting, April 7th 2014
 - The main motivation to build the distributed normal form is to find examples that motivate the use of *operator pull down*.
   - Exhaustive source normal forms may not be necessary in order to find these examples.
   - An example may be found using a subset of the query capabilities of a set of sources.
 - The two source normal forms that have been completed are lacking on two dimensions.
   - They do not consider the data model of the data processed in the query execution.
     - Example : The data model of the processed data could be incompatible with some (if not all) operators for a given source. 
   - They do not consider the source requirements of the configuration of operators.
     - Example : An operator may be supported by a source but not if configured with a function that can only be processed at another source.
 - A unique Distributed Normal Form(DNF) cannot be obtained if : 
   - There exists a query *Q* such that there are no generic (source unaware) plan *PQ* that can be *efficient* for all of the underlying sources of the DNF.    

#### Summary of CSE 231 Paper 1

 - The author presents the implementation of a dynamically typed object oriented language called SELF. The SELF language performs twice better than other dynamically typed languages such as Smalltalk, because it uses novel optimizations other languages do not, such as : 
   - customized compilation, 
   - type prediction
   - call splitting
 - The system currently has limitations. For instance, it can only extract types from method receivers, but not from method arguments.  
 - The author suggest using type flow analysis to predict more types (such as method arguments) at compile time, and a more poweful type of message splitting.   