#### Feedback on DNF work by Kian Win

Kian Win does not believe I am going on the right track. Complaints :

 - Major :
   - Heterogeneity may not be required to show that a DNF cannot be built.
   - Definition of contradiction to the existence of a DNF should be changed to :
     - Assuming a Garlic-style source wrapper distribution model, given two queries Q1, Q2 there exists no DNF that can produce efficient distributed plans for both Q1 and Q2.
   - DNFs that generate the plans for the two queries are missing.
     - Do not introduce rewriting techniques, but rather introduce candidate DNFs.
   - Simpler examples may be found.
 - Minor :
   - Redundant notation introduced and naming conventions are not followed. Notation for schemas has been introduced in the survey paper.
   - Wordy explanation that could be made drier. Examples for the user's understanding should not be included in the slides. May be given orally if necessary.

#### Updating the DNF proof

We have a concrete example of 2 queries and two plans that are incompatible. The first question to answer is if a unique normal form can generate both plans.
When looking purely at operators, it is easy to see that both plans are conform to Romain's DNF. But Romain's DNF does not cover data model.

If we take a different approach, we can think of an example that would motivate operation pull up. Example :
A selection with an expensive UDF : (selection better above join if join is selective). This example easily breaks Romain's normal form.   
   
   
### Email to Kian Win [unpublished]

Hello kian Win,

I remember your complaint that I include too many "unnecessary" details in my slides. My fear is that lack of details would generate a gap of understanding between what I am trying to show and what my reader thinks I am trying to show. I believe details are sometimes necessary for the reader to understand the purpose of some decisions. I think of a set of slides as a lecture, not a dry specification.  
   