### Problems introduced
 - Unique DNF problem
 - Unique Plan problem

### Unique DNF problem

We have shown that a unique DNF can be found using only first dimension and queries of class SPJ+subquery.
It is my intuition that the result applies also to group by and other dimensions. 

## Conclusions from Yannis Meeting

 - The problem of whether a chosen DNF can express all plans is not so important.
 - The problem of whether a DNF can decide which plan to use given contiguous subplan is more important.


### TA JSP
 - Show how to install Postgres
 - Show how to install Tomcat
 - Send post about what we are going to cover technical details.
 - Eclipse should contain WPT by default.
 - Should write a detailed tutorial on my github and publish the example from class (multiply).
 
## Initial Setup For The project

### Install a Ubuntu VM

We suggest you use a VM to build your project. There are several reasons :
 - 
 - Linux Ubuntu is probably the best platform to develop open source software.
 - It will make grading for us easier ( I know, that's selfish :p). 
 - I don't want to write a cross platform guide.

The only part of this guide that will be cross platform will be how to obtain and install a Ubuntu VM. The rest of the guide will assume that you will be using Ubuntu.

#### Install Eclipse 

#### Setup Postgres

#### Setup Tomcat

#### Setup A Tomcat server on Eclipse

  - 1. Configure the run time server :
    - Go to Eclipse > Preferences > Server > Run Time Environments
    - Add...
    - Choose Apache Tomcat 7.0, then next.
    - Make sure Tomcat installation is :
    
        /usr/local/apache-tomcat-70.0.52
            
    - Click on Finish 
  - 2. Add a new server :
    - Go on Window > Show View > Servers
    - Open new server wizard from the servers window pane (should be on the bottom of your screen).
    - Make sure Server Host Name is `localhost` and Server Runtime Environment `Apache Tomcat v7.0` then select Finish.
    - The server should now appear in the server window. Right-click and the server and press start. You should know be able to see the tomcat main page on http://localhost:8080.
    - Some people (including I) may see a 404 page error at this step. Don't worry, your tomcat is running. We just need to do an extra configuration.
    - Back on Eclipse, double-click on the server name and a server configuration window should appear. Make sure the radio button `User Tomcat Installation` is ticked. Verify that the *Server Path* is also set to `/usr/local/apache-tomcat-70.0.52`.
    - Restart the server. You should know see the Tomcat server normally.
  - 3. Write.

#### Write your first Tomcat Webapp

#### Write your first JSP program

#### Write a simple JSP program with Hibernate