### Yannis's opinion
While example 1 and 3 (which make use of the UDF function) are good, example 2 :

 - cannot be solved using operator pull down (my opinion)
 - can be reproduced (somewhat) without heterogenity
 - is focused on the physical aspects (which is arguably the case of other examples as well).

## New Directions

#### GroupBy
 - Using groupby, we can reproduce examples similar to 1 and 3.
 
#### Order By
 - Physical plans become handy
   - MergeSort Joins becomes very efficient if the input tables are ordered.
 - Sources are not aware of what kind of order could be beneficial to some other source.
 - Can middleware rewriters introduce the right orders? Or should it be the source wrapper's responsibility?

#### Problem 1 : CQL OrderBy
Suggested example :

 - CQL can only use order-by on clustering attributes.
 - Suggested plan include a sort merge join and an ordering of CQL table using non-clustering attribute.
 => false : Sorting can happen at the site of the join as well

Intuition : Heterogeneity example would be the most interesting.
Maybe try to play the heterogeneity card coupled with the physical implementation.

#### Note : GroupBy and Topk

Similar examples to those listed last week using selection can be found using GROUP BY and TOP K.

### New Idea : Physical Implementation 
 - Middle-ware is not aware of operator source, therefore it cannot choose the proper algorithm for that operator.
 - This is usually not a problem if we delegate this task to source query optimizers.
 - But in some cases physical implementation optimization is distributed over several sources, which do not know how to communicate between themselves how to employ the best physical plan.
 - This may be done despite limited query capabilities.
 
#### Example 1 : Merge Sort Join
Using merge sort join in distributed setting.

 - Setting : 
   - One source is SQL and has the join
   - One source is mongo and is alreadyd sorted.
   - Best plan involves merge sort join, but SQL is unaware that mongo relation is sorted.
 - Criticism :
   - Sorting could happen as part of SQL optimization as well.
   
#### Example 2 : Join Reordering
 - Assume two sources, SQL and AQL.
 - Assume join algorithms in AQL execute slower.
 - Assume 3way join of tables (s1,s2,a1) : s1,s2 in SQL and a1 in AQL.
 - Use indices.

Suggest Join by the DNF : ((s1,s2),a1)
Best Join  : ((s1,a1),s2)

Criticism : the only query capabilities aspect of this example is that a given operation may vary in efficiency across sources in heterogeneous systems.

#### Example 3 : Semijoin in Mongo
Mongo supports match (semijoin on key).
 - Assume S (mongo data) is multimedia (small key, big binary)
 - Assume R is small (SQL)
 - We need to join R,S
 - Avoid pushing S to SQL by pushing project of R and semijoin on Mongo   
   
   
   
### New Idea : Specifying contiguous sub plans
When we say contiguous sub plan, what do we mean? How do we handle plans that are sent from one source to another?

We use Garlic STARs to build contiguous sub plans :

- Garlic specifically mentions that wrapper STARs do not call other STARs.
  - Thus they do not have the flexibility of calling other sources (They would need to call the wrapper STARs of these sources).
  - Problem may be fixed by allowing source wrapper STARs to call other STARs (in particular pushdown STARs).
- Garlic pushes sub plans to sources but cannot tell them to push some of *their* sub plans to other sources.

### New Idea : Protocol for middleware-coordinated source to source interaction.

- Garlic does not provide a way for sources to communicate without middle ware interaction.
- Need to build such a protocol.

### Account for difference of costs for a same operator for different sources

### Point about meaningful examples